---
layout: page
title: Reading List
permalink: /reading-list/
---

**Outline:**

???

## Introduction

This page lists some books about various aspects of software development and
software engineering that I have read over the years, especially during a
particularly intense period in the 2007-2008 time frame.  I provide a brief
overview of the content of each book and why I think it is useful (or
essential) to read the book and what to look for.  These books, along wtih the
personal application of the ideas presented in them over the next few years,
represent my basic education in software engineering.

To provide some context and motivation for this reading list, I describe my
background and experiences.  When I started my Ph.D. in Chemical Engineering
in 1996 at Carnegie Mellon University (CMU), I knew that I liked writing code
and I liked the challenge of learning and mastering the C++ language.  My
first C++ book was ??? and I read that book cover-to-cover in about 2 days.
Then I read B.S's book "The C++ Programming Language" cover-to-cover a few
months after that.  While that book mostly just covered the C++ language, the
author made some references to writing tests and some other basic software
engineering best practices but it was very minimal (after all, this was a book
about a programming language, not software engineering).  Later my first year
of grad school I was introduced to the book "Design Patterns" by a Computer
Science Ph.D. student at CMU.  Armed with that knowledge of C++ and Design
Patterns, I set about writing a sizable amount of software implementing
advanced numerical algorithms for constrained optimization as part of my
Ph.D. work (the optimization package at that point was called rSQP++ for
reduced successive quadratic programming).





???
